.pi/skills/attractor-fsharp-security-review/SKILL.md, before:

---
name: attractor-fsharp-security-review
description: This skill should be used when the user asks for "security review", "vulnerability scan", "audit F# security", "security audit", "find vulnerabilities", "check for security issues", or wants a deep security analysis of F# code including input validation, .NET interop safety, and dependency concerns.
---

# F# Security Review

**Action required:** Run `/review fsharp security` to start an interactive security review. Do not perform the review manually.

---

<!-- The content below is used by the /review command as review instructions -->

Perform a comprehensive security audit of F# code, examining input validation, serialization boundaries, secrets handling, and potential vulnerabilities.

## Scope Determination

First, determine what code to review:

1. **If the user specifies files/directories**: Review those paths
2. **If no scope specified**: Review working changes
   - Check for `.jj` directory first, use `jj diff` if present
   - Otherwise use `git diff` to identify changed `.fs` and `.fsx` files
   - If no changes, ask the user what to review

## Review Process

1. **Map the attack surface**: Identify entry points (HTTP handlers, CLI args, file inputs, external service calls)
2. **Trace data flow**: Follow untrusted input through the codebase
3. **Check each security domain** below
4. **Review dependencies**: Check `.fsproj` and `paket.dependencies` / `nuget.config` for known issues
5. **Output findings** in the standard format

## Security Checklist

### Input Validation
- All external input validated at system boundaries
- String inputs checked for length limits
- Numeric inputs bounded appropriately
- File paths sanitized (no path traversal)
- URLs validated before use
- No assumption that input matches expected format
- Type providers used safely (data source trusted)

### Serialization & Deserialization
- JSON/XML deserialization uses safe settings (no type-name handling unless required)
- `System.Text.Json` / `Newtonsoft.Json` configured to prevent type confusion attacks
- Deserialized data validated after parsing
- No `BinaryFormatter` usage (inherently unsafe)
- Custom serializers handle malformed input gracefully

### SQL & Data Access
- Parameterized queries used (no string interpolation in SQL)
- Type providers (e.g., SqlProvider, Dapper.FSharp) used safely
- ORM queries don't expose raw SQL injection paths
- Connection strings not hardcoded
- Database permissions follow principle of least privilege

### Secrets Handling
- No hardcoded secrets, API keys, or credentials
- Environment variables or secret managers used for sensitive config
- Secrets not logged or included in error messages
- Config files with secrets not committed to repo
- `IConfiguration` / `User Secrets` used in development

### Dependency Security
- Check `.fsproj` / `paket.dependencies`:
  - Are packages from trusted sources (NuGet)?
  - Are there known vulnerabilities? (`dotnet list package --vulnerable`)
  - Are dependencies pinned to specific versions?
  - Any unnecessary dependencies that increase attack surface?

### External Service Calls
- HTTP requests use HTTPS
- `HttpClient` reused (not created per-request)
- API responses validated before use
- Timeouts configured for external calls
- Rate limiting considered
- Certificate validation not disabled
- No command injection in `Process.Start` calls

### Unsafe Code & Interop
- `NativePtr` / `NativeInterop` reviewed for memory safety
- P/Invoke signatures correct (buffer overflows possible with wrong sizes)
- `fixed` statements used correctly
- `Unchecked` module usage justified
- No `obj` downcasting on untrusted data
- `use` / `IDisposable` properly handled (no resource leaks)

### Authentication & Authorization
- Auth checks at appropriate boundaries
- No auth bypass through alternate code paths
- ASP.NET authorization attributes/policies applied correctly
- Session/token handling secure
- Privilege escalation paths reviewed
- CORS configured appropriately

### Error Handling & Information Disclosure
- Error messages don't leak internal details (stack traces, connection strings)
- Custom error types don't expose sensitive data
- Logging doesn't contain PII or secrets
- Debug endpoints / `#if DEBUG` code not in production
- `failwith` messages don't contain sensitive information
- Exception filters don't silently swallow security-relevant errors

### Data Exposure
- Sensitive fields excluded from serialization (`[<JsonIgnore>]`, etc.)
- Logs don't contain PII or secrets
- Error responses don't leak implementation details
- API responses filtered to authorized data only
- `ToString()` overrides don't expose sensitive fields

## Output Format

Present findings as:

```markdown
## Findings

### [SEVERITY] Issue Title
**File:** `path/to/File.fs:LINE`
**Category:** security

**Issue:** Description of the vulnerability and potential impact.

**Suggestion:** How to remediate, with code example if helpful.

**Effort:** trivial|small|medium|large

---
```

Use severity indicators:
- HIGH: Exploitable vulnerabilities, data exposure, auth bypass
- MEDIUM: Defense-in-depth issues, missing validation, weak patterns
- LOW: Hardening opportunities, best practice deviations

## Summary

After all findings, provide:
- Total count by severity
- Critical items requiring immediate attention
- Attack surface summary (entry points identified)
- Dependency risk assessment
- Overall security posture (1-2 sentences)

Commit message:

fix(attractor): clarify status marker requirement in review skill prompts
Two issues caused review stages to omit the required [STATUS: ...] marker:

1. Each skill opened with "Action required: Run /review ... Do not
   perform the review manually" -- an interactive-mode instruction that
   is misleading noise in an automated pipeline context.

2. Every Summary section ended with its own output format (severity
   counts, assessment prose) but made no mention of [STATUS: ...]. The
   model treated that as the natural end of its response and stopped
   without appending the marker loaded from review-status-markers.md.

Remove the interactive preamble and add an explicit Required block at
the end of each Summary section across all 16 local skill copies.

.pi/skills/attractor-fsharp-security-review/SKILL.md, after:

---
name: attractor-fsharp-security-review
description: This skill should be used when the user asks for "security review", "vulnerability scan", "audit F# security", "security audit", "find vulnerabilities", "check for security issues", or wants a deep security analysis of F# code including input validation, .NET interop safety, and dependency concerns.
---

# F# Security Review


Perform a comprehensive security audit of F# code, examining input validation, serialization boundaries, secrets handling, and potential vulnerabilities.

## Scope Determination

First, determine what code to review:

1. **If the user specifies files/directories**: Review those paths
2. **If no scope specified**: Review working changes
   - Check for `.jj` directory first, use `jj diff` if present
   - Otherwise use `git diff` to identify changed `.fs` and `.fsx` files
   - If no changes, ask the user what to review

## Review Process

1. **Map the attack surface**: Identify entry points (HTTP handlers, CLI args, file inputs, external service calls)
2. **Trace data flow**: Follow untrusted input through the codebase
3. **Check each security domain** below
4. **Review dependencies**: Check `.fsproj` and `paket.dependencies` / `nuget.config` for known issues
5. **Output findings** in the standard format

## Security Checklist

### Input Validation
- All external input validated at system boundaries
- String inputs checked for length limits
- Numeric inputs bounded appropriately
- File paths sanitized (no path traversal)
- URLs validated before use
- No assumption that input matches expected format
- Type providers used safely (data source trusted)

### Serialization & Deserialization
- JSON/XML deserialization uses safe settings (no type-name handling unless required)
- `System.Text.Json` / `Newtonsoft.Json` configured to prevent type confusion attacks
- Deserialized data validated after parsing
- No `BinaryFormatter` usage (inherently unsafe)
- Custom serializers handle malformed input gracefully

### SQL & Data Access
- Parameterized queries used (no string interpolation in SQL)
- Type providers (e.g., SqlProvider, Dapper.FSharp) used safely
- ORM queries don't expose raw SQL injection paths
- Connection strings not hardcoded
- Database permissions follow principle of least privilege

### Secrets Handling
- No hardcoded secrets, API keys, or credentials
- Environment variables or secret managers used for sensitive config
- Secrets not logged or included in error messages
- Config files with secrets not committed to repo
- `IConfiguration` / `User Secrets` used in development

### Dependency Security
- Check `.fsproj` / `paket.dependencies`:
  - Are packages from trusted sources (NuGet)?
  - Are there known vulnerabilities? (`dotnet list package --vulnerable`)
  - Are dependencies pinned to specific versions?
  - Any unnecessary dependencies that increase attack surface?

### External Service Calls
- HTTP requests use HTTPS
- `HttpClient` reused (not created per-request)
- API responses validated before use
- Timeouts configured for external calls
- Rate limiting considered
- Certificate validation not disabled
- No command injection in `Process.Start` calls

### Unsafe Code & Interop
- `NativePtr` / `NativeInterop` reviewed for memory safety
- P/Invoke signatures correct (buffer overflows possible with wrong sizes)
- `fixed` statements used correctly
- `Unchecked` module usage justified
- No `obj` downcasting on untrusted data
- `use` / `IDisposable` properly handled (no resource leaks)

### Authentication & Authorization
- Auth checks at appropriate boundaries
- No auth bypass through alternate code paths
- ASP.NET authorization attributes/policies applied correctly
- Session/token handling secure
- Privilege escalation paths reviewed
- CORS configured appropriately

### Error Handling & Information Disclosure
- Error messages don't leak internal details (stack traces, connection strings)
- Custom error types don't expose sensitive data
- Logging doesn't contain PII or secrets
- Debug endpoints / `#if DEBUG` code not in production
- `failwith` messages don't contain sensitive information
- Exception filters don't silently swallow security-relevant errors

### Data Exposure
- Sensitive fields excluded from serialization (`[<JsonIgnore>]`, etc.)
- Logs don't contain PII or secrets
- Error responses don't leak implementation details
- API responses filtered to authorized data only
- `ToString()` overrides don't expose sensitive fields

## Output Format

Present findings as:

```markdown
## Findings

### [SEVERITY] Issue Title
**File:** `path/to/File.fs:LINE`
**Category:** security

**Issue:** Description of the vulnerability and potential impact.

**Suggestion:** How to remediate, with code example if helpful.

**Effort:** trivial|small|medium|large

---
```

Use severity indicators:
- HIGH: Exploitable vulnerabilities, data exposure, auth bypass
- MEDIUM: Defense-in-depth issues, missing validation, weak patterns
- LOW: Hardening opportunities, best practice deviations

## Summary

After all findings, provide:
- Total count by severity
- Critical items requiring immediate attention
- Attack surface summary (entry points identified)
- Dependency risk assessment
- Overall security posture (1-2 sentences)

**Required:** End your response with exactly one status marker on its own line:
- `[STATUS: success]` — no HIGH or MEDIUM findings
- `[STATUS: fail]` and `[FAILURE_REASON: <list of HIGH/MEDIUM findings>]` — one or more HIGH or MEDIUM findings exist
